Title: Ethnography of the Myth Community, the Dawn of its Sixth Year of Dwindling Fate
Subtitle: Begging the Question
Author: SEMATOC
Date: September 20th, 2025
Image: 130018707228500

-- Page 1 --

2.1. Why Make a Myth

i. 	To persecute myths further, you must ask beyond what they are; what is key for 
any community is to ask why they are. At the simplest level, myths exist because other 
myths exist; the concept of a myth has developed over time since the start of Roblox 
itself. It is unlikely that people just think up what a myth is and do it.3 A myth is a result 
of inspiration from any source; it is a creative expression that results from what others 
have expressed. A lot of people want to be a myth because it is a way to a spotlight, 
notably with its lack of large need for huge social interaction; it provides a way for your 
art to be seen and engaged with more than other forms of art, relative to community 
size. Outwardly, people get to see your perspectives and experiences, they get to enjoy 
your art, and form a community. Inwardly, you receive that satisfaction that your work 
has reached people, that people enjoy you, and you get the feeling of being heard. Aside 
from the joys of community, there is also the competitive side to myths, between others, 
maybe for visits, attention, hunts, and so on. A myth is created because one feels the 
need to build a character and a game as their form of creative expression, whether that 
feeling of expression is fulfilled by others or by your own satisfaction, or by both.

ii. 	How much does one really receive as a myth? Myths don’t appear out of nowhere, 
either; you have to build up skills to make progress. Before your skills are developed, the 
community may put you down. It can seem too daunting a work to express oneself in, so 
many end up seeking shortcuts. What are these shortcuts for, though? Is there some 
grand level you reach where all of that time and effort has gotten you fame that can 
match it? In the modern myth community, there is nothing up there. Your passion over 
the years leads up to a few friends that you keep around, maybe, or perhaps a few 
YouTube videos and high ranks in groups. Does that all matter, though? This may be to 
then see some newer or less passionate myth surpass your connection in the community, 
purely on determination, though lacking “real” effort.4 This is not a matter of taking 
those determined down, though; this is more a matter of uplifting everyone. This 
community has let the skilled down and ignored the unskilled; in a community like this, 
there should not be such divisive conversation. Going further, is there legacy in 
consideration when making a myth? Your influence inspires hundreds, maybe your 
name gets remembered for a couple of months to years, but there is seemingly no height 
of influence for myths nowadays, at least where we have any lasting effect. We are going 
nowhere, but that is to be discussed later on.

-- Page 2 --

2.2. Why Hunt Myths

i. 	Though it is not my best area to speak on,5 I do believe that everybody in the 
community is a hunter in some way. I doubt anyone becomes a myth and leaves hunting 
behind; it is a big way to compare, to build up your own craft, and it can form 
friendships. As a hunter, you enjoy myths as anyone else would enjoy a story game for 
example; it is simply something you engage with for fun. Going deeper, a hunter can 
earn some satisfaction with completion, or in making large progress in more difficult 
myths, a hunter can find a place working with others, or the expansion of their context of 
the world as they receive unique ideas and experiences. Like art, it is all about hearing 
the expression of others, what they can grant you, how they can speak about the world 
in ways which you could never think of, and to me, it is all about the market of 
perspective, from one mind to another, bought with time and effort.

ii. 	Community-wise, there are many paths and benefits to be had through groups, 
interactions, and upholding the community. Hunters are what myths live on; they are 
the basic community members, but they are not fodder either. Hunting grants you 
influence, and if you do enough for a group, you earn the satisfaction of making an impact 
in a small shard of the community. As a hunter, you’re not only hunting myths as your 
passion, but taking up high roles, guiding groups you’re in, or forming groups. This 
upholding of the community is a legacy that myths can not match, as we generally don’t 
take important ranks in groups. Hunters are what facilitate all of the attention for myths, 
sometimes using that power to overrepresent their own myths, though that’s for later as 
well. The most well-known hunters form groups, museums, and other places, which then 
leave a lasting remnant of their influence for years to come. Overall, there is everything 
to gain in becoming a devoted hunter; there is no creative wall hit, only difficult group 
interactions, drama, or larger conflicts. Avoiding those can vary in difficulty, but the 
main point is that hunters are everything.

-- Page 3 --

2.3. Why Engage in Art

i. 	Connecting to why people engage in the community, hunter or myth, is why 
people engage with art in general. As I have said, art is an exchange of perspective; art is 
one person utilising their ability to express themselves and their perspectives for others 
to observe and apply their own minds to. Art is not only an exchange of perspective, but 
an exchange of experience and feeling as well. To the cave dweller, expanding horizons 
beyond the cave means engaging in outside ideas, experiences, and feelings, which all 
grant the cave dweller an easier path forward in life, a greater idea of possibilities. Art 
enriches your life in many unseen ways, from what you see in your future, to how you 
relate to others, to working life, and your ability to problem solve. The expansion of the 
mind is beneficial for your future, for your present actions, and for your perspectives on 
the past. Finding a community in art is also important, not only for this thought 
exchange, but for people you can relate with or a culture you can be a part of. 
Community is the most important aspect; nobody engages in their hobbies or interests 
without a community to support them, to relate to. Everybody needs a community; 
humans are social by nature, and the instinct to fit in is deeply human, rooted in 
evolution, where it often meant the difference between life and death.

ii. 	The reason to make art is the same as making a myth; it is a quick way to garner 
attention, the effort in your craft is visible, and it can convey a wide variety of ideas and 
experiences. What is beyond myths is the size of the community and what follows from 
popularity. For artists in more popular or established communities, much more 
recognition and monetary gain can form. People can have their art take the place of a job, 
even full-time, a luxury not one individual in the myth community could achieve. Art 
culture surpasses the art itself, and enters other forms such as videos, written analysis, 
and other commentary. This all ends up contributing to the exchange of perspectives 
and ideas that form the central basis of engagement with art; there is this inherent will 
to have others see your effort when you finish a project, you want to share the effort, 
time, and thought that went into the formation of this creative expression.


